the past few days there's been a lot of
kicking and fussing on the forums to do
with a new blog post ArenaNet released
talking about their changes to the guild
wars - trait system this among other
things included the information that to
respect traits players must find an npc
and play them a sum of in-game gold this
in combination with another recent
reveal that armor can break and need to
be repaired from time to time seems to
have got a lot of people whining they
say they don't like taxes on their fun
they say they want to be free to
experiment they say this didn't happen
in Guild Wars 1 they say it prevents
expiration I can see the reasoning why
people think this is such a big deal but
I'm also seeing a lot of jumping to
conclusions and people missing the point
so here's what I think first it's a gold
think these are good things I tend to
find though whenever this is mentioned
discussion always escalates into a whole
different direction about in-game
economies and stuff which I'm not going
to cover in this video but suffice it to
say I do think in the end they are an
important part of MMOs and the fact this
is a gold sync isn't something we should
completely ignore so to the point of
experimentation many of you might be
unaware but it's actually a known fact
that in the PvP areas players are
completely free to fiddle with their
trait set up wherever they like these
are PvE mechanics and ArenaNet seem to
understand that not only does that mean
you'll never have to worry about
spending a lot of gold in an environment
that specifically encourages build
experimentation but it also means that
you can always take your PvE character
to a place where he's free to test
things out for the PvE world later
you should also probably know that major
and minor traits lots the things which
have the most dramatic impact on your
characters abilities they can be freely
equipped at any time out of combat
that's completely separate to paying for
respects so the only thing that's been
affected here is your attributes
something of comparatively less
consequence so what's the big problem
here but let's not forget the whole
point of the system the whole idea is to
give players impactful decisions as they
level and grow not just growing in
strength as you level but also becoming
distinct among your peers because in
Guild Wars 2 there's no such thing as a
skill tree or anything like that the
games having to make up for it this very
core RPG mechanic in other ways allowing
players to respec anywhere they like
then just devalues that whole system
everyone becomes easily
clay and the weight behind our choices
that level up is lost with constant
respects that we really promote
experimentation or are we just
encouraging everyone to flock to the
established meta because they never felt
unique in the first place and no Guild
Wars 1 didn't have a price and respect
and that's true at one point it did have
a price and respect and just so that you
know but that has been removed and
people keep going on about that but
don't forget right that nearly all of
the content in Guild Wars 1 took place
in instanced encounters where no you
couldn't respect if you were doing
anything in an explorable area or a
mission or anything like that in Guild
Wars 1 you could not respect your stuff
paid or not so in this way much impact
behind our decisions was retained in
Guild Wars 1 because you were stuck with
it unless you went back being a
persistent world Guild Wars 2 can't do
that so it's instead just asking we
returned to established areas like
villages towns and cities where there
isn't going to be much combat going on
is that really any worse and I don't
even think we should mention Guild Wars
1 really because they're entirely
different games people no matter what
the problem is a lot of people keep
coming back to Gilda's 1 for stuff like
this
Oh Guild Wars 1 Herbert's Guild Wars 1
did this but Guild Wars 2 isn't Guild
Wars 1 ok ArenaNet have said it a
million times people need to get this
into the head they're a completely
different genre this is not the forth
campaign of Guild Wars 1 it's not
another expansion to Guild as 1 its
Guild Wars 2 the idea that this will
harm our desire to explore is an
interesting point because from what I'm
seeing right now the main thing Guild
Wars 2 is lacking is giving players that
initial desire to explore so skills and
professional --'tis are automatically
given to us skill points are
automatically given to us trait slots
major and minor are automatically given
to us quests are automatically given to
us their rewards are automatically given
to us it's all in the name of
streamlining the experience for players
so that they don't have to wait around
to have fun which is fine but it's in
the name of not waiting around to have
fun that the communities begun shunning
every single mechanic designed to
encourage us to go somewhere or do
something specific okay these are not
evil things
players can have the freedom to explore
the world but if we're not being offered
some tangible reason some guidance to
explore the world is going to eventually
feel Hollow
I'd argue that mechanics like armor
repairing and respecting actually if
anything giving us more reason to
explore than anything else so for
example picture this right you're in the
middle of the wilderness your arms
cracked and you fancy trying a new build
in one scenario what everyone's crying
out for you just do it on the fly and
you continue wandering aimlessly around
in the second scenario you begin to
search for a nearby village then you
feel rewarded for actually going there
getting there you find some cool stuff
on the way you might find some cool
stuff there too and once you're done you
still have your plans to explore where
you originally were and off you go
people need goals creating your own is
fine and there are some games which are
obviously designed entirely around that
philosophy making your own goals but
Guild Wars 2 is not a sandbox and it was
never designed to be one adding
mechanics that give people a reason to
go to one place or another is not
removing your ability to explore the
world and we especially can't make those
kinds of claims when we have no idea how
often you'll even want to respect or
repair your armor we don't know that yet
I think there's too much talk about I
don't want to be forced to do something
I hadn't initially planned first off no
one is forcing you to do anything it's a
decision for you to make in the game you
can continue to fight with your current
attribute or your broken armor or you
can make the choice to go back and fix
up games are about decisions that's
where they thrive so enjoy them don't
shun every decision they try and throw
your way and second you're still playing
the game even if you choose to go back
you don't even necessarily have to go
back where you want to go to a new
village could be somewhere you've never
been before people act like it's the
worst thing in the world now that
they're doing something that they hadn't
maybe originally planned to do but guess
what
maybe if it's really that big of a deal
to you that you're now still playing the
game but doing something else
if you're really not enjoying it that
much maybe you just don't enjoy the game
in the first place there is the
possibility they all become grinding
yeah I do understand that but once again
we're jumping to the worst conclusions
on misinformation and overreaction we
don't know how often we'll be doing
these kinds of things we don't know how
much money they'll cost or anything like
that well some people do it was all
there in the press beta and I didn't
hear any complaints on the topic from
them did you so please there are some
things we should be complaining about
but not this thanks for watching
oh wow I really got on Ohio there sorry
guys I didn't mean to sound so
patronizing with this video but there
you go if any of you disagree with
anything I've said please feel free to
leave a comment later in the week I'll
be doing a follow-up video on everyone's
thoughts on the topic as it goes forward
yeah thanks very much for watching guys
and I guess I will see you next time